CERTIFICATION OF ENROLLMENT
SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL
68th Legislature
2023 Regular Session
Passed by the House April 19,
  Yeas 56  Nays
Speaker of the House of 
Representatives
Passed by the Senate April 18,
  Yeas 28  Nays
President of the SenateCERTIFICATE
I, Bernard Dean, Chief Clerk of the 
House of Representatives of the 
State of Washington, do hereby 
certify that the attached is 
SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL 1240  as 
passed by the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on 
the dates hereon set forth.
Chief Clerk
Approved FILED
Governor of the State of WashingtonSecretary of State
 State of WashingtonAN ACT Relating to establishing firearms-related safety measures
to increase public safety by prohibiting the manufacture,
importation, distribution, selling, and offering for sale of assault
weapons, and by providing limited exemptions applicable to licensed
firearm manufacturers and dealers for purposes of sale to armed
forces branches and law enforcement agencies and for purposes of sale
or transfer outside the state, and to inheritors; reenacting and
amending RCW 9.41.010 ; adding new sections to chapter 9.41  RCW;
creating a new section; prescribing penalties; and declaring an
emergency.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON:
NEW SECTION.   Sec. 1.  The legislature finds and declares that
gun violence is a threat to the public health and safety of
Washingtonians. Assault weapons are civilian versions of weapons
created for the military and are designed to kill humans quickly and
efficiently. For this reason the legislature finds that assault
weapons are "like" "M-16 rifles" and thus are "weapons most useful in
military service." Assault weapons have been used in the deadliest
mass shootings in the last decade. An assailant with an assault
weapon can hurt and kill twice the number of people than an assailant
with a handgun or nonassault rifle. This is because the additional 21SUBSTITUTE HOUSE BILL
AS AMENDED BY THE SENATE
Passed Legislature - 2023 Regular Session
State of Washington 68th Legislature 2023 Regular Session
By House Civil Rights & Judiciary (originally sponsored by 
Representatives Peterson, Senn, Alvarado, Walen, Street, Springer, 
Simmons, Reeves, Reed, Ormsby, Kloba, Fitzgibbon, Duerr, Doglio, 
Berry, Bateman, Fey, Davis, Ramel, Bergquist, Fosse, Pollet, 
Lekanoff, Macri, Gregerson, and Santos; by request of Office of the 
Governor and Attorney General)
READ FIRST TIME 01/31/23.
p. 1 SHB 1240.PLfeatures of an assault weapon are not "merely cosmetic"; rather,
these are features that allow shooters to fire large numbers of
rounds quickly. An analysis of mass shootings that result in four or
more deaths found that 85 percent of those fatalities were caused by
an assault weapon. The legislature also finds that this regulation is
likely to have an impact on the number of mass shootings committed in
Washington. Studies have shown that during the period the federal
assault weapon ban was in effect, mass shooting fatalities were 70
percent less likely to occur. Moreover, the legislature finds that
assault weapons are not suitable for self-defense and that studies
show that assault weapons are statistically not used in self-defense.
The legislature finds that assault weapons are not commonly used in
self-defense and that any proliferation is not the result of the
assault weapon being well-suited for self-defense, hunting, or
sporting purposes. Rather, increased sales are the result of the gun
industry's concerted efforts to sell more guns to a civilian market.
The legislature finds that the gun industry has specifically marketed
these weapons as "tactical," "hyper masculine," and "military style"
in manner that overtly appeals to troubled young men intent on
becoming the next mass shooter. The legislature intends to limit the
prospective sale of assault weapons, while allowing existing legal
owners to retain the assault weapons they currently own.
Sec. 2.  RCW 9.41.010  and 2022 c 105 s 2 and 2022 c 104 s 2 are
each reenacted and amended to read as follows:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the definitions in
this section apply throughout this chapter.
(1) "Antique firearm" means a firearm or replica of a firearm not
designed or redesigned for using rim fire or conventional center fire
ignition with fixed ammunition and manufactured in or before 1898,
including any matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type
of ignition system and also any firearm using fixed ammunition
manufactured in or before 1898, for which ammunition is no longer
manufactured in the United States and is not readily available in the
ordinary channels of commercial trade.
(2)(a) "Assault weapon" means:
(i) Any of the following specific firearms regardless of which
company  produced and manufactured the firearm:
 38 AK-47 in all forms
p. 2 SHB 1240.PL 1 AK-74 in all forms
 2 Algimec AGM-1 type semiautomatic
 3 American Arms Spectre da semiautomatic carbine
 4 AR15, M16, or M4 in all forms
 5 AR 180 type semiautomatic
 6 Argentine L.S.R. semiautomatic
 7 Australian Automatic
 8 Auto-Ordnance Thompson M1 and 1927 semiautomatics
 9 Barrett .50 cal light semiautomatic
 10 Barrett .50 cal M
 11 Barrett .50 cal M107A
 12 Barrett REC
 13 Beretta AR70/S70 type semiautomatic
 14 Bushmaster Carbon
 15 Bushmaster ACR
 16 Bushmaster XM-
 17 Bushmaster MOE
 18 Calico models M100 and M
 19 CETME Sporter
 20 CIS SR 88 type semiautomatic
 21 Colt CAR
 22 Daewoo K-
 23 Daewoo K-
 24 Dragunov semiautomatic
 25 Fabrique Nationale FAL in all forms
 26 Fabrique Nationale F
 27 Fabrique Nationale L1A1 Sporter
 28 Fabrique Nationale M249S
 29 Fabrique Nationale PS
 30 Fabrique Nationale SCAR
 31 FAMAS .223 semiautomatic
 32 Galil
p. 3 SHB 1240.PL 1 Heckler & Koch G3 in all forms
 2 Heckler & Koch HK-41/
 3 Heckler & Koch HK-43/
 4 Heckler & Koch HK94A2/
 5 Heckler & Koch MP-5 in all forms
 6 Heckler & Koch PSG-
 7 Heckler & Koch SL
 8 Heckler & Koch UMP
 9 Manchester Arms Commando MK-
 10 Manchester Arms MK-
 11 SAR-
 12 SIG AMT SG510 in all forms
 13 SIG SG550 in all forms
 14 SKS
 15 Spectre M
 16 Springfield Armory BM-
 17 Springfield Armory G
 18 Springfield Armory SAR-
 19 Springfield Armory SAR-
 20 Springfield Armory SAR-
 21 Springfield Armory M-21 sniper
 22 Springfield Armory M1A
 23 Smith & Wesson M&P
 24 Sterling Mk
 25 Sterling Mk 6/
 26 Steyr AUG
 27 TNW M
 28 FAMAS F
 29 Uzi 9mm carbine/rifle
(ii)  A semiautomatic rifle that has an overall length of less
than 30 inches;
p. 4 SHB 1240.PL(iii)  A conversion kit, part, or combination of parts, from which
an assault weapon can be assembled or from which a firearm can be
converted into an assault weapon if those parts are in the possession
or under the control of the same person; or
(iv)  A semiautomatic, center fire rifle that has the capacity to
accept a detachable magazine and has one or more of the following:
(A) A grip that is independent or detached from the stock that
protrudes conspicuously beneath the action of the weapon. The
addition of a fin attaching the grip to the stock does not exempt the
grip if it otherwise resembles the grip found on a pistol;
(B) Thumbhole stock;
(C) Folding or telescoping stock;
(D) Forward pistol, vertical, angled, or other grip designed for
use by the nonfiring hand to improve control;
(E) Flash suppressor, flash guard, flash eliminator, flash hider,
sound suppressor, silencer, or any item designed to reduce the visual
or audio signature of the firearm;
(F) Muzzle brake, recoil compensator, or any item designed to be
affixed to the barrel to reduce recoil or muzzle rise;
(G) Threaded barrel designed to attach a flash suppressor, sound
suppressor, muzzle break, or similar item;
(H) Grenade launcher or flare launcher; or
(I) A shroud that encircles either all or part of the barrel
designed to shield the bearer's hand from heat, except a solid
forearm of a stock that covers only the bottom of the barrel;
(v) A semiautomatic, center fire rifle that has a fixed magazine
with the capacity to accept more than 10 rounds;
(vi)  A semiautomatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a
detachable magazine and has one or more of the following:
(A) A threaded barrel, capable of accepting a flash suppressor,
forward handgrip, or silencer;
(B) A second hand grip;
(C) A shroud that encircles either all or part of the barrel
designed to shield the bearer's hand from heat, except a solid
forearm of a stock that covers only the bottom of the barrel; or
(D) The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location
outside of the pistol grip;
(vii)  A semiautomatic shotgun that has any of the following:
(A) A folding or telescoping stock;
p. 5 SHB 1240.PL(B) A grip that is independent or detached from the stock that
protrudes conspicuously beneath the action of the weapon. The
addition of a fin attaching the grip to the stock does not exempt the
grip if it otherwise resembles the grip found on a pistol;
(C) A thumbhole stock;
(D) A forward pistol, vertical, angled, or other grip designed
for use by the nonfiring hand to improve control;
(E) A fixed magazine in excess of seven rounds; or
(F) A revolving cylinder shotgun.
(b) For the purposes of this subsection, "fixed magazine" means
an ammunition feeding device contained in, or permanently attached
to, a firearm in such a manner that the device cannot be removed
without disassembly of the firearm action.
(c) "Assault weapon" does not include antique firearms, any
firearm that has been made permanently inoperable, or any firearm
that is manually operated by bolt, pump, lever, or slide action.
(3) "Assemble" means to fit together component parts.
(((3))) (4) "Barrel length" means the distance from the bolt face
of a closed action down the length of the axis of the bore to the
crown of the muzzle, or in the case of a barrel with attachments to
the end of any legal device permanently attached to the end of the
muzzle.
(((4))) (5) "Bump-fire stock" means a butt stock designed to be
attached to a semiautomatic firearm with the effect of increasing the
rate of fire achievable with the semiautomatic firearm to that of a
fully automatic firearm by using the energy from the recoil of the
firearm to generate reciprocating action that facilitates repeated
activation of the trigger.
(((5))) (6) "Crime of violence" means:
(a) Any of the following felonies, as now existing or hereafter
amended: Any felony defined under any law as a class A felony or an
attempt to commit a class A felony, criminal solicitation of or
criminal conspiracy to commit a class A felony, manslaughter in the
first degree, manslaughter in the second degree, indecent liberties
if committed by forcible compulsion, kidnapping in the second degree,
arson in the second degree, assault in the second degree, assault of
a child in the second degree, extortion in the first degree, burglary
in the second degree, residential burglary, and robbery in the second
degree;
p. 6 SHB 1240.PL(b) Any conviction for a felony offense in effect at any time
prior to June 6, 1996, which is comparable to a felony classified as
a crime of violence in (a) of this subsection; and
(c) Any federal or out-of-state conviction for an offense
comparable to a felony classified as a crime of violence under (a) or
(b) of this subsection.
(((6))) (7) "Curio or relic" has the same meaning as provided in
27 C.F.R. Sec. 478.11 .
(((7))) (8) "Dealer" means a person engaged in the business of
selling firearms at wholesale or retail who has, or is required to
have, a federal firearms license under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 923 (a). A
person who does not have, and is not required to have, a federal
firearms license under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 923 (a), is not a dealer if that
person makes only occasional sales, exchanges, or purchases of
firearms for the enhancement of a personal collection or for a hobby,
or sells all or part of his or her personal collection of firearms.
(((8))) (9) "Detachable magazine" means an ammunition feeding
device that can be loaded or unloaded while detached from a firearm
and readily inserted into a firearm.
(10)  "Distribute" means to give out, provide, make available, or
deliver a firearm or large capacity magazine to any person in this
state, with or without consideration, whether the distributor is in-
state or out-of-state. "Distribute" includes, but is not limited to,
filling orders placed in this state, online or otherwise.
"Distribute" also includes causing a firearm or large capacity
magazine to be delivered in this state.
(((9))) (11)  "Family or household member" has the same meaning as
in RCW 7.105.010 .
(((10) )) (12)  "Federal firearms dealer" means a licensed dealer
as defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 921 (a)(11) .
(((11) )) (13)  "Federal firearms importer" means a licensed
importer as defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 921 (a)(9) .
(((12) )) (14)  "Federal firearms manufacturer" means a licensed
manufacturer as defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 921 (a)(10) .
(((13) )) (15)  "Felony" means any felony offense under the laws of
this state or any federal or out-of-state offense comparable to a
felony offense under the laws of this state.
(((14) )) (16)  "Felony firearm offender" means a person who has
previously been convicted or found not guilty by reason of insanity
in this state of any felony firearm offense. A person is not a felony
p. 7 SHB 1240.PLfirearm offender under this chapter if any and all qualifying
offenses have been the subject of an expungement, pardon, annulment,
certificate, or rehabilitation, or other equivalent procedure based
on a finding of the rehabilitation of the person convicted or a
pardon, annulment, or other equivalent procedure based on a finding
of innocence.
(((15) )) (17)  "Felony firearm offense" means:
(a) Any felony offense that is a violation of this chapter;
(b) A violation of RCW 9A.36.045 ;
(c) A violation of RCW 9A.56.300 ;
(d) A violation of RCW 9A.56.310 ;
(e) Any felony offense if the offender was armed with a firearm
in the commission of the offense.
(((16) )) (18)  "Firearm" means a weapon or device from which a
projectile or projectiles may be fired by an explosive such as
gunpowder. "Firearm" does not include a flare gun or other
pyrotechnic visual distress signaling device, or a powder-actuated
tool or other device designed solely to be used for construction
purposes.
(((17) )) (19) (a) "Frame or receiver" means a part of a firearm
that, when the complete firearm is assembled, is visible from the
exterior and provides housing or a structure designed to hold or
integrate one or more fire control components, even if pins or other
attachments are required to connect the fire control components. Any
such part identified with a serial number shall be presumed, absent
an official determination by the bureau of alcohol, tobacco,
firearms, and explosives or other reliable evidence to the contrary,
to be a frame or receiver.
(b) For purposes of this subsection, "fire control component"
means a component necessary for the firearm to initiate, complete, or
continue the firing sequence, including any of the following: Hammer,
bolt, bolt carrier, breechblock, cylinder, trigger mechanism, firing
pin, striker, or slide rails.
(((18) )) (20)  "Gun" has the same meaning as firearm.
(((19) )) (21)  "Import" means to move, transport, or receive an
item from a place outside the territorial limits of the state of
Washington to a place inside the territorial limits of the state of
Washington. "Import" does not mean situations where an individual
possesses a large capacity magazine or assault weapon  when departing
from, and returning to, Washington state, so long as the individual
p. 8 SHB 1240.PLis returning to Washington in possession of the same large capacity
magazine or assault weapon  the individual transported out of state.
(((20) )) (21)  "Intimate partner" has the same meaning as provided
in RCW 7.105.010 .
(((21) )) (22)  "Large capacity magazine" means an ammunition
feeding device with the capacity to accept more than 10 rounds of
ammunition, or any conversion kit, part, or combination of parts,
from which such a device can be assembled if those parts are in
possession of or under the control of the same person, but shall not
be construed to include any of the following:
(a) An ammunition feeding device that has been permanently
altered so that it cannot accommodate more than 10 rounds of
ammunition;
(b) A 22 caliber tube ammunition feeding device; or
(c) A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever-action
firearm.
(((22) )) (24)  "Law enforcement officer" includes a general
authority Washington peace officer as defined in RCW 10.93.020 , or a
specially commissioned Washington peace officer as defined in RCW
10.93.020 . "Law enforcement officer" also includes a limited
authority Washington peace officer as defined in RCW 10.93.020  if
such officer is duly authorized by his or her employer to carry a
concealed pistol.
(((23) )) (25)  "Lawful permanent resident" has the same meaning
afforded a person "lawfully admitted for permanent residence" in 8
U.S.C. Sec. 1101 (a)(20) .
(((24) )) (26)  "Licensed collector" means a person who is
federally licensed under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 923 (b).
(((25) )) (27)  "Licensed dealer" means a person who is federally
licensed under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 923 (a).
(((26) )) (28)  "Loaded" means:
(a) There is a cartridge in the chamber of the firearm;
(b) Cartridges are in a clip that is locked in place in the
firearm;
(c) There is a cartridge in the cylinder of the firearm, if the
firearm is a revolver;
(d) There is a cartridge in the tube or magazine that is inserted
in the action; or
(e) There is a ball in the barrel and the firearm is capped or
primed if the firearm is a muzzle loader.
p. 9 SHB 1240.PL(((27) )) (29)  "Machine gun" means any firearm known as a machine
gun, mechanical rifle, submachine gun, or any other mechanism or
instrument not requiring that the trigger be pressed for each shot
and having a reservoir clip, disc, drum, belt, or other separable
mechanical device for storing, carrying, or supplying ammunition
which can be loaded into the firearm, mechanism, or instrument, and
fired therefrom at the rate of five or more shots per second.
(((28) )) (30)  "Manufacture" means, with respect to a firearm or
large capacity magazine, the fabrication, making, formation,
production, or construction of a firearm or large capacity magazine,
by manual labor or by machinery.
(((29) )) (31)  "Nonimmigrant alien" means a person defined as such
in 8 U.S.C. Sec. 1101 (a)(15) .
(((30) )) (32)  "Person" means any individual, corporation,
company, association, firm, partnership, club, organization, society,
joint stock company, or other legal entity.
(((31) )) (33)  "Pistol" means any firearm with a barrel less than
16 inches in length, or is designed to be held and fired by the use
of a single hand.
(((32) )) (34)  "Rifle" means a weapon designed or redesigned, made
or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or
redesigned, made or remade, and intended to use the energy of the
explosive in a fixed metallic cartridge to fire only a single
projectile through a rifled bore for each single pull of the trigger.
(((33) )) (35)  "Sale" and "sell" mean the actual approval of the
delivery of a firearm in consideration of payment or promise of
payment.
(((34) )) (36)  "Secure gun storage" means:
(a) A locked box, gun safe, or other secure locked storage space
that is designed to prevent unauthorized use or discharge of a
firearm; and
(b) The act of keeping an unloaded firearm stored by such means.
(((35) )) (37)  "Semiautomatic" means any firearm which utilizes a
portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired
cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a
separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.
(38) (a) "Semiautomatic assault rifle" means any rifle which
utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the
fired cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a
separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.
p. 10 SHB 1240.PL(b) "Semiautomatic assault rifle" does not include antique
firearms, any firearm that has been made permanently inoperable, or
any firearm that is manually operated by bolt, pump, lever, or slide
action.
(((36) )) (39)  "Serious offense" means any of the following
felonies or a felony attempt to commit any of the following felonies,
as now existing or hereafter amended:
(a) Any crime of violence;
(b) Any felony violation of the uniform controlled substances
act, chapter 69.50  RCW, that is classified as a class B felony or
that has a maximum term of imprisonment of at least 10 years;
(c) Child molestation in the second degree;
(d) Incest when committed against a child under age 14;
(e) Indecent liberties;
(f) Leading organized crime;
(g) Promoting prostitution in the first degree;
(h) Rape in the third degree;
(i) Drive-by shooting;
(j) Sexual exploitation;
(k) Vehicular assault, when caused by the operation or driving of
a vehicle by a person while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or any drug or by the operation or driving of a vehicle in a
reckless manner;
(l) Vehicular homicide, when proximately caused by the driving of
any vehicle by any person while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or any drug as defined by RCW 46.61.502 , or by the operation
of any vehicle in a reckless manner;
(m) Any other class B felony offense with a finding of sexual
motivation, as "sexual motivation" is defined under RCW 9.94A.030 ;
(n) Any other felony with a deadly weapon verdict under RCW
9.94A.825 ;
(o) Any felony offense in effect at any time prior to June 6,
1996, that is comparable to a serious offense, or any federal or out-
of-state conviction for an offense that under the laws of this state
would be a felony classified as a serious offense; or
(p) Any felony conviction under RCW 9.41.115 .
(((37) )) (40)  "Short-barreled rifle" means a rifle having one or
more barrels less than 16 inches in length and any weapon made from a
rifle by any means of modification if such modified weapon has an
overall length of less than 26 inches.
p. 11 SHB 1240.PL(((38) )) (41)  "Short-barreled shotgun" means a shotgun having one
or more barrels less than 18 inches in length and any weapon made
from a shotgun by any means of modification if such modified weapon
has an overall length of less than 26 inches.
(((39) )) (42)  "Shotgun" means a weapon with one or more barrels,
designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from
the shoulder and designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended
to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed shotgun shell to fire
through a smooth bore either a number of ball shot or a single
projectile for each single pull of the trigger.
(((40) )) (43)  "Transfer" means the intended delivery of a firearm
to another person without consideration of payment or promise of
payment including, but not limited to, gifts and loans. "Transfer"
does not include the delivery of a firearm owned or leased by an
entity licensed or qualified to do business in the state of
Washington to, or return of such a firearm by, any of that entity's
employees or agents, defined to include volunteers participating in
an honor guard, for lawful purposes in the ordinary course of
business.
(((41) )) (44)  "Undetectable firearm" means any firearm that is
not as detectable as 3.7 ounces of 17-4 PH stainless steel by walk-
through metal detectors or magnetometers commonly used at airports or
any firearm where the barrel, the slide or cylinder, or the frame or
receiver of the firearm would not generate an image that accurately
depicts the shape of the part when examined by the types of X-ray
machines commonly used at airports.
(((42) )) (45) (a) "Unfinished frame or receiver" means a frame or
receiver that is partially complete, disassembled, or inoperable,
that: (i) Has reached a stage in manufacture where it may readily be
completed, assembled, converted, or restored to a functional state;
or (ii)  is marketed or sold to the public to become or be used as the
frame or receiver of a functional firearm once finished or completed,
including without limitation products marketed or sold to the public
as an 80 percent frame or receiver or unfinished frame or receiver.
(b) For purposes of this subsection:
(i) "Readily" means a process that is fairly or reasonably
efficient, quick, and easy, but not necessarily the most efficient,
speedy, or easy process. Factors relevant in making this
determination, with no single one controlling, include the following:
(A) Time, i.e., how long it takes to finish the process; (B) ease,
p. 12 SHB 1240.PLi.e., how difficult it is to do so; (C) expertise, i.e., what
knowledge and skills are required; (D) equipment, i.e., what tools
are required; (E) availability, i.e., whether additional parts are
required, and how easily they can be obtained; (F) expense, i.e., how
much it costs; (G) scope, i.e., the extent to which the subject of
the process must be changed to finish it; and (H) feasibility, i.e.,
whether the process would damage or destroy the subject of the
process, or cause it to malfunction.
(ii)  "Partially complete," as it modifies frame or receiver,
means a forging, casting, printing, extrusion, machined body, or
similar article that has reached a stage in manufacture where it is
clearly identifiable as an unfinished component part of a firearm.
(((43) )) (46)  "Unlicensed person" means any person who is not a
licensed dealer under this chapter.
(((44) )) (47)  "Untraceable firearm" means any firearm
manufactured after July 1, 2019, that is not an antique firearm and
that cannot be traced by law enforcement by means of a serial number
affixed to the firearm by a federal firearms manufacturer, federal
firearms importer, or federal firearms dealer in compliance with all
federal laws and regulations.
NEW SECTION.   Sec. 3.  A new section is added to chapter 9.41  RCW
to read as follows:
(1) No person in this state may manufacture, import, distribute,
sell, or offer for sale any assault weapon, except as authorized in
this section.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
(a) The manufacture, importation, distribution, offer for sale,
or sale of an assault weapon by a licensed firearms manufacturer for
the purposes of sale to any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or the state of Washington, or to any law enforcement agency
for use by that agency or its employees for law enforcement purposes,
or to a person who does not reside in this state;
(b) The importation, distribution, offer for sale, or sale of an
assault weapon by a dealer that is properly licensed under federal
and state law for the purpose of sale to any branch of the armed
forces of the United States or the state of Washington, or to a law
enforcement agency in this state for use by that agency or its
employees for law enforcement purposes;
p. 13 SHB 1240.PL(c) The distribution, offer for sale, or sale of an assault
weapon to or by a dealer that is properly licensed under federal and
state law where the dealer acquires the assault weapon from an
individual legally authorized to possess or transfer the assault
weapon for the purpose of selling or transferring the assault weapon
to a person who does not reside in this state. The purpose of this
section is to allow individuals who no longer wish to own an assault
weapon to sell their assault weapon and is not intended to allow
Washington dealers to purchase assault weapons wholesale for the
purpose of selling a stock or inventory of assault weapons online or
in person to nonresidents;
(d) The out-of-state sale or transfer of the existing stock of
assault weapons owned by a licensed dealer that was acquired prior to
January 1, 2023, for the limited period of 90 days after the
effective date of this section; or
(e) The receipt of an assault weapon by a person who, on or after
the effective date of this section, acquires possession of the
assault weapon by operation of law upon the death of the former owner
who was in legal possession of the assault weapon, provided the
person in possession of the assault weapon can establish such
provenance. Receipt under this subsection (2)(e)  is not
"distribution" under this chapter. A person who legally receives an
assault weapon under this subsection (2)(e)  may not sell or transfer
the assault weapon to any other person in this state other than to a
licensed dealer, to a federally licensed gunsmith for the purpose of
service or repair, or to a law enforcement agency for the purpose of
permanently relinquishing the assault weapon.
(3) For the purposes of this section, "law enforcement agency"
means any (a) general authority Washington law enforcement agency as
defined in RCW 10.93.020 ; (b) limited authority Washington law
enforcement agency as defined in RCW 10.93.020 ; or (c) equivalent
federal, state, or local law enforcement agency in the United States.
(4) A person who violates this section is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
NEW SECTION.   Sec. 4.  A new section is added to chapter 9.41  RCW
to read as follows:
(1) The legislature finds that manufacturing, importing,
distributing, selling, or offering for sale any assault weapon in
violation of section 3 of this act are matters vitally affecting the
p. 14 SHB 1240.PLpublic interest for the purpose of applying the consumer protection
act, chapter 19.86  RCW; are not reasonable in relation to the
development and preservation of business; and constitutes an unfair
or deceptive act in trade or commerce and an unfair method of
competition for the purpose of applying the consumer protection act,
chapter 19.86  RCW .
(2) A violation of section 3 of this act is an unfair or
deceptive act or practice or unfair method of competition in the
conduct of trade or commerce for purposes of the consumer protection
act, chapter 19.86  RCW .
(3) Any person or entity that receives a civil investigative
demand issued pursuant to RCW 19.86.110  and that has an objection to
answering in whole or in part may avail themselves of the procedural
protections afforded in RCW 19.86.110(8) . Further, the attorney
general shall not share with a law enforcement agency conducting a
criminal investigation any materials or information obtained via a
response to a civil investigative demand issued pursuant to RCW
19.86.110  unless such information or materials are required to be
disclosed pursuant to issuance of a search warrant.
NEW SECTION.   Sec. 5.  If any provision of this act or its
application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the act or the application of the provision to other
persons or circumstances is not affected.
NEW SECTION.   Sec. 6.  This act is necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety, or support of
the state government and its existing public institutions, and takes
effect immediately.
--- END ---
p. 15 SHB 1240.PL